# masterthesis2022
Master thesis from Roskilde University spring 2022 - Energy consumption of WordPress plugins

Abstract: 
30-40% of all web pages available worldwide are created using WordPress. This master thesis studies energy consumption comparing different plugins available to WordPress website creators. The plugins Elementor, Imagify and EWWW were tested additionally to running an experiment without any plugins.
The experiment uses two Raspberry Pi computers to act as server and client respectively. To imitate online end-user behaviour, testing has been automated using the tool Selenium. The results show a significant difference in energy consumption between all three chosen plugins, two of them with similar functionality. The findings of the experiments suggest that it is necessary to further investigate energy consumption of WordPress plugins, and make the results publicly available. This would enable website creators to make more informed decisions regarding potential energy savings and for developers to have an incentive to create more energy-efficient plugins for future use. In continuation of the thesis it would be interesting to investigate the effect of the temperature on the performance of the processors and testing a plugin with a similar functionality to Elementor.

Contents of this GitHub project: Data - folder containing all recorded and generated data, FilesForScriptExecution - folder containing files necessary for executing the main script, JupyterNotebooks - folder containing all notebook files used for data analysis, seleniumautomationscript.py - main script containing all code necessary to execute the experiments for the thesis.
